{\rtf\ansi
{\fonttbl
 \f0\fswiss Arial;}
{\colortbl
 \red0\green0\blue127;}
\deff0
\fs20
\sa200
#{\footnote contents}
${\footnote GNU Chess Help Contents}
{\fs32\cf0 GNU Chess Help Contents}
\par
{\uldb Playing GNU Chess}{\v playing}
\par
{\fs26 GNU Chess menu commands}
\par
{\uldb Game}{\v game}\line
{\uldb Edit}{\v edit}\line
{\uldb Options}{\v options}\line
{\uldb Skill}{\v skill}\line
{\uldb Side}{\v side}\line
{\uldb Board}{\v board}\line
{\uldb Hint}{\v hint}
\par
Most menu settings will be saved in GNUCHESS.INI in your Windows directory.
\page

#{\footnote playing}
${\footnote Playing GNU Chess}
K{\footnote Playing GNU Chess;Moving pieces}
{\fs32\cf0 Playing GNU Chess}\par
To move a piece, point the mouse cursor at the square the piece is on, press
 the left mouse button, then point the cursor at the destination square and
 click the left button again. If you select the wrong piece, click on it again.
 To castle, move the king to the square where it should be after the castling
 move. The rook will be moved automatically. Moves can also be made by
 pressing F2 and typing the move in algebraic notation, for example e2e3.
 Type o-o for a King-side castle and o-o-o for a Queen-side castle.
\par
\page

#{\footnote game}
${\footnote Game menu}
K{\footnote Game menu;Open game;Save game;List game}
{\fs32\cf0 Game Menu}
\par\pard
{\b New}
\par\li144\sa200
Reset the board and clocks to start a new game.
\par\pard
{\b Open}
\par\li144\sa200
Retrieve and resume playing a previously saved game.
\par\pard
{\b Save}
\par\li144\sa200
Save a game to continue it later.
\par\pard
{\b List}
\par\li144\sa200
List the moves of the game to a file.
\par\pard
{\b Exit}\line
\tx144\tab\keep Exit GNU Chess.
\page

#{\footnote edit}
${\footnote Edit menu}
K{\footnote Edit menu;Setup board;Review game;Undo;Remove;Force}
{\fs32\cf0 Edit Menu}
\sa200\par\pard
{\b Setup Board}
\par
\li144\sa200
Allows the contents of the board to be edited. Pieces can be moved anywhere
 on the board. To remove a piece, click the right button or double click the
 left button on its square. Note that the kings cannot be removed. To add a piece to
 the board, press a button on the bar and click on the appropriate square.
 Press the button again to pop it up. Pieces cannot be moved while a button
 is down. The buttons can also be operated using keys 1 to 9 and 0 (0 is the
 black queen). Moves can be keyed in using F2. If a button is down, type the
 coordinates of the destination square. When finished, select {\b Done} from
 the menu. Select {\b Clear Board} to remove all pieces except the kings, and
 {\b Restore Board} to restore a normal starting board. The board editor is
 useful for setting up chess problems on the board.
\par\pard
{\b Review Game}
\par
\sa200\li144
Replay a game one move at a time. Use the menu to see the next move or take
 back the previous move. Replay only works properly for games starting from
 a normal starting board, not one set up differently using the board editor.
\par\pard
{\b Undo}
\par\sa200\li144
Undo the last move.
\par\pard
{\b Remove}
\par\sa200\li144
Undo the last two moves.
\par\pard
\page

#{\footnote options}
${\footnote Options menu}
K{\footnote Options menu;Beep;Coordinates;Search stats;Animated searching;Hash;
Hash depth;Create hashfile;Windows;Contempt;Material;Recapture;Threat;PVS;
New eval;Gamein}
\sa200
{\fs32\cf0 Options Menu}
\par\pard
{\b Beep}
\par\sa200\li144
Beep when the computer has made its move.
\par\pard
{\b Coordinates}
\par\sa200\li144
Display board coordinates.
\par\pard
{\b Search Stats}
\par\sa200\li144
Show search statistics.
\par\pard
{\b Animated Searching}
\par\sa200\li144
See animation of the searching process. Note that searching is much slower
 with this option on.
\par\pard
{\b Book}
\par\sa200\li144
If checked, GNU Chess will use its book of chess game openings to improve
 its opening game. The file GNUCHESS.DAT must be in the same directory as
 GNUCHESS.EXE. If this file was not found or could not be opened, the Book
 menu option is grayed.
\par\pard
{\b Hash}
\par\sa200\li144
Enable use of the hash file, if one exists. A hash file allows the program
 to learn from previous games.
\par\pard
{\b Hash Depth}
\par\sa200\li144
Allows the user to change the minimum depth for using the hashfile and the
 number of moves from the begining of the game to use it.
\par\pard
{\b Create Hashfile}
\par\sa200\li144
Create a hash file. The actual size is the number entered multiplied by
 38 bytes. If the size is less than 24, 2 to the power of the
 number is used. 16 to 17 is a good size to use. A hash file may improve
 the playing ability of the computer. It will probably place considerable
 demand on the hard drive while the computer is calculating its move.
\par\pard
{\b Compile Book}
\par\sa200\li144
The binary book file GNUCHESS.DAT was compiled from the file GNUCHESS.BK3
 distributed with GNU Chess for other platforms. If you wish to compile a
 different book file, name it GNUCHESS.BK and place it in the same directory
 as GNUCHESS.EXE. The Compile Book menu option will add the file's contents
 to GNUCHESS.DAT, which will be created if it does not exist. The size of
 this file is limited to 20000 records.
\par\pard
{\b Change Windows}
\par\sa200\li144
Change some paramaters used by the search algorithm. Generally, just use the
 defaults.
\par\pard
{\b Contempt}
\par\sa200\li144
Sets the amount of contempt the computer has for the player. Contempt means
 that the computer will take a risk in the hope that the player will not
 see a potential good move. The higher the contempt, the greater the risk
 the computer is prepared to take.
\par\pard
{\b Material}
\par\sa200\li144
Draw on lack of material.
\par\pard
{\b Recapture}
\par\sa200\li144
Use recapture heuristic.
\par\pard
{\b Threat}
\par\sa200\li144
Use threat heuristic.
\par\pard
{\b PVS}
\par\sa200\li144
Use PVS heuristic.
\par\pard
{\b New Eval}
\par\sa200\li144
Enable new evaluations
\par\pard
{\b Gamein}
\par\sa200\li144
Use gamein timing. Assumes the time specified for time control is the time
 for a complete game.
\par\pard
\page

#{\footnote skill}
${\footnote Skill menu}
K{\footnote Skill menu;Time controls;Random;Easy;Depth}
\sa200
{\fs32\cf0 Skill Menu}
\par\pard
{\b Time}
\par\sa200\li144
Set the time control. Specify the number of moves to make in a certain time.
 When the time is up, the entries on the second and third lines will be used
 if they are non-zero, otherwise the clock will be reset to the last set
 of numbers used. For example, if you enter 20 and 10 on the first line and
 1 and 1 on the second line, the computer will generate 20 moves in 10
 minutes, then 1 move every minute after that. If either paramater on the
 first line is zero, the computer will make each move within the time
 entered in the maximum response time control.
\par\pard
{\b Random}
\par\sa200\li144
Randomize the move selection slightly.
\par\pard
{\b Easy}
\par\sa200\li144
If easy mode is off, the computer thinks about its next move during the
 opponents turn.
\par\pard
{\b Depth}
\par\sa200\li144
Set the maximum search depth. To reduce the difficulty of play, this
 can be decreased, to a minimum of 2.
\par\pard
\page

#{\footnote side}
${\footnote Side menu}
K{\footnote Side menu;Reverse board;Switch;Black;White;Both;Go}
\sa200
{\fs32\cf0 Side Menu}
\par\pard
{\b Reverse Board}
\par\sa200\li144
Reverse the board.
\par\pard
{\b Switch}
\par\sa200\li144
Switch sides with the computer. The board will be reversed if necessary
 so that your pieces are at the front.
\par\pard
{\b Switch but don't move}
\par\sa200\li144
Same as {\b Switch}, but it ensures that it will not be the computer's move
 after the switch. This is useful if you have set up a position with the
 board editor and want the computer to play white with black moving first.
\par\pard
{\b Black}
\par\sa200\li144
Computer plays black. The board may be reversed as for {\b Switch}.
\par\pard
{\b White}
\par\sa200\li144
Computer plays white. The board may be reversed as for {\b Switch}.
\par\pard
{\b Both}
\par\sa200\li144
Computer plays against itself.
\par\pard
{\b White to move / Black to move}
\par\sa200\li144
Change whose move it is.
\par\pard
{\b Force}
\par\sa200\li144
Allows the user to enter moves for both sides. The board can be used to play
 a game between two people while force is on.
\par\pard
\page

#{\footnote board}
${\footnote Board menu}
K{\footnote Board menu;Colors;Board size}
\sa200
{\fs32\cf0 Board Menu}
\par\pard
{\b Colors}
\par\sa200\li144
Set the display colors.
\par\pard
{\b Size}
\par\sa200\li144
Set the board size. Small fits on a 640 X 480 screen, medium fits on a
 800 X 600 screen, and large fits on a 1024 X 768 screen.
\par\pard
{\b Type}
\par\sa200\li144
Set the board type to square or simulated 3D.
\par\pard
\page

#{\footnote hint}
${\footnote Hint}
\sa200
{\fs32\cf0 Hint}
\par
Display the best move the computer thinks you can make. You can also
 use Ctrl-H.
}
